Know it's time that we create our first cue exchange and binding between them to do that.
I have my rabbit.
MQ management you I open running in front of me.
So let's go to exchanges first and create an exchange for us.
So all hit at a new exchange.
And as the name let's say this is a testy exchange and let's just say the type will be tracked and durability
is durable by default.
So I'm not touching it at all.
Delete as know no in total as.
No.
And there are no arguments for now and just don't worry about the details right now and I'll just simply
hit and exchange to create it.
Here we go.
We have our exchanges created right here.
And as you can see it has a section named as bindings which has none right now.
And we can publish messages to this exchange and we can just delete the exchange altogether.
So let's go and create a queue right now to bind us to Xchange on the QS page.
I'll hit add in new Q And of course I'm going to say this is a test too and it is of course durable
and for the arguments I have nothing right now I'll be using those arguments and making use of them
in the later sections when we're implementing our applications.
So I'll just hit add.
Q Here we go.
Our queue is ready to get messages from our exchange.
So let's go back to our exchanges and from our text exchange let's add a binding to the queue.
We just created.
So I'll just bind this exchange to the queue which is test queue and the binding key is not required.
So I'm just leaving it that just as is and I'll just hit bind.
Here we go.
Our rebinding is now this way.
Right here as you can see.
So let's go and publish a message to our exchange and see if it is being taken by the test you so I'm
not providing any routing key but I'm just saying hi and hi from rabid MQ course just like that.
I'm not adding any other property under saying in the message body which is payload.
In this case and I'm just going to publish this message.
So let's hit publish message and here we go.
We have our popup notification saying as message published Let's go to our queue and in our queue as
you can see we have a total of one message and that one is ready to see that message.
Let's click on our test queue.
And in the test queue as you can see from the queued message Charke right here we have ASPI that Spike
is generated when we published our message.
And as you can see we have a total of one messages in our queue to get that message to see the message.
Let's go in click get messages and I'll hit get messages.
And here we go.
We can see our message to our published message in rabbit m q q and which was high from Ibidem.
Q As simple as that.
And apart from publishing and seeing this message from an exchange with binding to AQ.
We have a couple of other alternatives that we can use.
We have consumers that we can see if there are any.
In our case there are none right now and we can see the bindings which was with the test Xchange from
the test.
Q As you can see here and we can also again publish messages to our queue directly from this interface
and we can move messages around queues and exchanges and we can also delete the queue entirely and we
can use the purge option for messages inside queue which is just simply deleting all the messages waiting
for the consumers to process in the queue.
And we can also see the runtime metrics for our queue which is a very detailed option for tracking your
queue and the consumer traffic.
So I hope this is a good introduction to management UI and creating our first Q And Exchange with a
binding and rabbit name.
Q And I think this is a very useful exercise.
I highly encourage you to do the same in your environment and I'll be seeing you on the next section.